
Prologue
========

The creation myth of Argenian culture. This is intended to set the tone of the story by showing
some of the spiritual undercurrents that drive the main theme.

PART I: Arrival
===============


Chapter 002
-----------

Chark's team discovers something in orbit around Rujar. They debate if it might be something
launched by Forbin. After more study they determine that the object is artificial. General
Fotkey takes the news to the First Citizen.


Chapter 003
-----------

Junella's seleck holds an induction ritual for Jala. Chark learns that the object has been
observed by ordinary people and is even in the news. Chark meets Lucasa and learns that the
object in orbit is really alien in nature. Off-camera the First Citizen decides to go public
with the information.


Chapter 005
-----------

We meet Jernumia and Varnok. There is some foreshadowing that shows Jernumia will play a
significant role in the story later.

    * * *

We meet Tusk and find out that he's a down-and-out linguist looking for a job. We also learn of
Tusk's troubles with racial hatred.

    * * *

We meet Colty at Marlock College as he's finishing up his degree program. He has been hired by
Parnon University. He don't particularly like the humans studying them.


Chapter 007
-----------

Chark's team modifies the Ear to send messages to the ship. They get a reply requesting a
meeting at Garnick.

    * * *

Tusk gets offered a job as a linguist for the OAA.

    * * *

Chark travels to Garnick and meets Tusk. Lucasa is already there.


Chapter 011
-----------

Chark and Tusk (and Lucasa) meet the Forbin delegation to Garnick. The humans arrive and
communicate with them via a holographic display device. They meet Mike.


Chapter 013
-----------

Tusk returns home and then travels to Varnok to testify before Parliament. Here we learn that
the humans are interested in building a telescope on Nermia. Tusk has dinner with Chark and
Lucasa. They are very optimistic about the future.


Chapter 017
-----------

Lucasa, Fotkey, Chark, and Tusk testify before Parliament.

    * * *

Fotkey meets with the first citizen. Here we learn of the "special weapons" program being
pursued at Rangard. The FC decides to grant the humans permission to build on Nermia.


Chapter 019
-----------

Jernumia watches the First Citizen give a speech on television during which he is apparently
shot by terrorists.

    * * *

Colty learns that Rachel will be coming to Parnon. He's asked to be her host but he resists the
idea. Rocalla, who is a bit obnoxious, pushes to be the human's host instead.

    * * *

Colty asks Joleia out and she accepts.

    * * *

Colty and Joleia go to a concert at the university.

    * * *

Colty is visited by Lucasa where he reads a letter written by Rachel. He's convinced to be her
host after all.


Chapter 023
-----------

Colty meets Rachel at the air force base when she first lands. Afterward he meets with Joleia
briefly and then attends a tour of the Physics Department for Rachel. Rachel gives a short
presentation where she talks about her desire to use the new telescope to observe "spherical
clusters" on the far side of the galaxy in order to develop a new theory of gravity.


Chapter 029
-----------

Joleia calls Colty in his office to tell him Rachel is in the library. Colty feels obligated to
check on her. He ends up taking Rachel to the college store for her to buy a notebook.  Colty is
surprised at how amicable Rachel is and the process of the two of them getting to know each
other begins.


PART II: Teacher
================

Chapter 031
-----------

Rachel starts teaching an introductory physics class. Colty, as her host, observes the class.
Colty offers her some advice on her teaching.

    * * *

Later Colty meets with his overseers and they discourage him from pursuing stellating
co-sequences. Frustrated, Colty has a conversation with Rachel, but it's much more comfortable
and familiar than when they first spent time together. Colty tells her of the "new direction" in
his research but Rachel realizes Colty isn't happy about it. Rocalla pressures Rachel to reveal
sensitive information, but she refuses.

    * * *

Rachel gives Colty a book on human mathematics.


Chapter 037
-----------

Rachel's class isn't going well; the students are uninspired. Rachel is trying to teach the
class the dunari way. Colty asks Rachel, on behalf of Joleia to attend a Juju celebration.  She
accepts. Here we learn more about the dunari religion and see Rachel's general open mindedness
about it. She's encouraged by Joleia's seleck to teach her classes "human style." She reveals
that telescope will be named "Nitooli" and explains why. A thunderstorm develops and we see the
dunari's fear of the dark. Rachel gives Colty another math book.


Chapter 041
-----------

Fotkey learns that one of the special weapons has been stolen. He travels to the scene of the
crime.

    * * *

Rachel switches her way of teaching classes and is much more natural, interesting, and
effective. The students warm up to her. She's worried that the Physics Department will not
approve (it's important that Rachel be seen as very accommodating... almost submissive... in her
personality).


Chapter 043
-----------

Fotkey meets with the First and Second Citizens and with the chair of the Parliamentary Defense
Committee to discuss the stolen special weapon. They suspect the Forbinites but Fotkey has
doubts.

    * * *

Colty studies human math. He begins to see an isomorphism between human and dunari notations.
Dargon interrupts him and encourages him to work on graph extension fields but Colty is
reluctant to admit what he's really been doing. Colty takes a walk and listens to a speech by
Zarlon.


Chapter 047
-----------

We see Jernumia in court. She expresses frustration over the cases she's been given (glass
ceiling effect because she's a woman).

    * * *

Colty takes Rachel to Varnok to see the art museum.

    * * *

Jernumia and Rachel almost, but not quite, cross paths in the art museum. Rachel speaks directly
with the people. This is to contrast the way she is against the way Zarlon describes the humans
in the previous chapter.


Chapter 053
-----------

We discover that Zarlon is actually the leader of the Junar. He conducts a ritual where Rachel's
assassination is "blessed." There is a lot in this scene, much of it quite important in order to
make sense of the second half of the story.

    * * *

Colty has a breakthrough on stellating co-sequences by using a combination of human and dunari
mathematics.

    * * *

The Junar kidnap Rachel but make it appear as if the Forbinites did it.


Chapter 059
-----------

Fotkey reviews the troops at Fort Yarta. Here we see the activation of the Argenian military.
The government is worried that the Forbinites have their special weapon and intend to use Rachel
to develop stronger ones. Fotkey discusses this with the First Citizen, who authorizes killing
Rachel, if necessary, to avoid having her fall into Forbin "hands."

    * * *

Rachel kills her captors and escapes. This scene defines her character. As meek and submissive
as she might appear normally, she harbors tremendous strength and ingenuity. To my mind this
scene defines humanity as a race. In many respects this scene is the turning point in the story.
It also completely screws up the Junar's plans! They totally underestimated our mild-mannered
human. :)


Chapter 061
-----------

Rachel is rescued by ordinary, country dunari folk... not the Argenian government and not by
advanced human technology. The compassion of the dunari in this chapter contrasts to the
ruthlessness of the dunari terrorists in the previous chapter.


Chapter 067
-----------

Rachel returns to class. She is greeted with an ovation and yet she downplays what she has done.
She teaches the class as she always has, thus illustrating her bravery.

    * * *

Marshall consults with Narlock, the IIB agent assigned to investigate Rachel's kidnapping.
Marshall asks about the note that Rachel found on the body of her captors. Narlock tells him it
is a Junar assassination note but also that the Military Investigative Service is handling the
case formally since they feel it was done by Forbin. Marshall tells Narlock that the humans have
decoded the genetics of the blood on the note and that might be useful evidence when they find a
suspect. The problem is making that work legally.

    * * *

Parliament interrogates Lucasa about Rachel's kidnapping. They talk about war with Forbin since
many of the delegates assume the Forbinites are responsible, something the Limzar (and
specifically Zarlon) encourage. Lucasa is disgusted by the group and tells them so.

    * * *

Lucasa returns to his office. He assumes he lost his job, but in fact many are impressed with
him.


Chapter 071
-----------

Narlock consults with an IIB lawyer. Apparently the blood evidence won't work. However, Narlock
isn't very satisfied with the legal counsel he receives.

    * * *

Rachel tells Colty about the DNA in the dunari blood she found: it turns out it shares a segment
of ultra-conserved non-coding sequence with human DNA. This is a shocking revelation: the DNA of
two species on different planets have some common structure. Rachel mentions Brenden in passing.

    * * *

Fotkey and Yutar discuss the state of the investigation. Yutar thinks the Forbinites have the
stolen weapan. Fotkey starts to suspect the truth about the Junar but Yutar doesn't think the
Junar is capable of such a thing.


PART III: Jahelle
=================


Chapter 079
-----------

The Junar explode the special weapon, destroying Yartagard.

    * * *

Rachel gets the bad news while in class. She ends class early and disappears from view.

    * * *

A fly-over of Yartagard reveals the unprecedented extent of the destruction. There is literally
a crater where the city used to be.

    * * *

A meeting takes place in the First Office. The Junar underestimated the power of the special
weapon and instead of Forbin being blamed for it, the humans are. Marshall denies this and the
First Citizen takes responsibility.

    * * *

The First Citizen makes a broadcast and resigns.


Chapter 079
-----------

Colty's paper is rejected and he notices that the genome structure is actually a fragment of a
stellating co-sequence.

    * * *

Colty goes to the human compound to tell Rachel about his finding. The humans are mostly
sleeping but Rachel is awakened to meet with him. She takes him into her space and they verify
the result using precise calculations. Rachel leaves a message for Brendon about it and the two
speculate that it might be some kind of message.


Chapter 083
-----------

Jernumia is consulted regarding the use of human evidence in the Yartagard case.

    * * *

Jernumia meets Rachel and discusses the practicality of bringing human evidence to the trial.
There are two issues. First, Rachel is not Argenian and not subject to Argenian perjury laws.
This might block her evidence completely. Second, Rachel is trying to bring surveillance
evidence of past events without running afoul of the Rules of Yotal. To do this she needs to
allow an ``observing witness'' to participate in the evidence gathering process. In effect a
dunari must go aboard Summer Breeze (although the precise nature of "Rachel's plan" is not made
evident here). This is a major problem and very dangerous because of the medical purge. Rachel
eventually suggests Tusk as someone who might be willing to do it.

    * * *
    
Rachel, Colty, and Brendon meet to talk about the genome discovery. We discover that the Kessler
sequence is in life forms on multiple worlds. Brendan raises the issue that the sequence may be
natural. It may be just a form of parallel evolution. Rachel argues for the artificial nature of
the sequence. They speculate about the "data" between the co-sequence structures as being
compressed. Colty decides to start thinking about data compression.


Chapter 089
-----------

Jernumia and Larnon go to the legal library in Varnok to do some research. Here we see Jernumia
acting as the lead (rather than subordinately as she has done with Haratol). We get hints about
her strategy. It is clear the two of them have a breakthrough, but the nature of it is left
unexplained. This scene also gives the reader a chance to see more of Jernumia (it opens in her
apartment and we learn that she does not have a seleck).
    
    * * *

Rachel suggests to Colty that he consider trying to get his paper published in a human journal.
He decides to go ahead with it, despite the fact that it means he'll have no chance of getting
it published in an Argenian journal in time. That's a big step!

    * * *

Tusk starts the medical purging procedure, although the precise nature of Rachel's plan is still
left unclear. Jernumia shows up and is shocked to discover that Tusk has a Forbinite background.


Chapter 97 [SHORT]
-----------

Narlock arrests Zarlon


Chapter 101
-----------

Zarlon goes on trial for authorizing the destruction of Yartagard.


Chapter 103
-----------

Colty talks to Rachel over the Link. It is revealed that the orbits of the spherical clusters
around the center of the galaxy hold the key for decoding the message embedded in the DNA.
Colty, Rachel, and Brendan agree to collaborate; Colty must go to Earth.


Chapter 107
-----------

Colty returns to Parnon and has dinner with Joleia. She asks him to marry her.

    * * *

Colty gives his full status presentation and rises to the rank of "Professor of Mathematics" at
Parnon University.

    * * *

Colty meets Rachel by the Varsynthia. Rachel gives Colty a machine.

    * * *

Rachel receives an award as "Jahelle." 

    * * *

Final scene. Rachel returns to Earth.


Epilogue
========

Colty visits Rachel at her home on Rujar. It is clear that she's been living there for some time
and is fully integrated into an Rujaran lifestyle. We catch up a bit on the two characters and
see their fully developed friendship.

    * * *

Shifting to the present tense we see some other species in some other star system discovering
stellating co-sequences.
